Question 1
Problem Statement: "Some users might find animations on a web page distracting or annoying. To improve user experience, you want to provide an option for users to disable animations. What jQuery method can you use to achieve this?"

Options:

Not possible to turn off the animation by the user
Use the jQuery method: stop()
Use the jQuery method: stop.animation()
Correct Answer: Use the jQuery method: stop()

Explanation:

stop(): This jQuery method is used to stop the current animations on an element. If a user wants to disable animations, you can use this method to halt ongoing animations.
Not possible to turn off the animation by the user: This is incorrect because you can use the stop() method to stop animations.
Use the jQuery method: stop.animation(): This is incorrect as there is no such method as stop.animation() in jQuery.
Question 2
Problem Statement: "Is jQuery a library specifically designed for handling JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) data?"

Options:

False
True
Correct Answer: False

Explanation:

False: jQuery is not a JSON library; it is a JavaScript library designed to simplify HTML document traversal, event handling, and animation. JSON is a data format, not the focus of jQuery.
True: This is incorrect because jQuery is not specifically a JSON library.
Question 3
Problem Statement: "$("#name").remove(); is a jQuery command. Will this command remove the text field with the ID name from the page when executed?"

Options:

False
True
Correct Answer: True

Explanation:

True: The .remove() method in jQuery removes the selected element from the DOM. Therefore, $("#name").remove(); will remove the element with the ID name.
False: This is incorrect because the command does indeed remove the element with the ID name.
Question 4
Problem Statement: "Rhita wants to use an alternative jQuery method to replace the code $(document).ready(fun), which executes a function when the document is fully loaded. Which of the following options is equivalent?"

Options:

jQuery(fun)
#(fun)
There is no equivalent function for the given code
$(fun)
Correct Answer: $(fun)

Explanation:

$(fun): This shorthand is equivalent to $(document).ready(fun). It runs the fun function when the DOM is ready.
jQuery(fun): This is incorrect as jQuery(fun) is not a valid shorthand for $(document).ready(fun).
#(fun): This is incorrect as #(fun) is not a valid jQuery function.
There is no equivalent function for the given code: This is incorrect because $(fun) is an equivalent shorthand.
Question 5
Problem Statement: "Kiran wants to clear all child elements from a div element on his webpage. Given the following HTML structure, which method should he use to achieve this?"

HTML Structure:

html
Copy code
<body>
  <div>
    This is some text
    <h2>Good morning</h2>
    <p>This is a paragraph inside the div.</p>
  </div>
  <p>This is a paragraph outside the div.</p>
</body>
Options:

remove(expr)
None of the above
delete()
empty()
Correct Answer: empty()

Explanation:

empty(): The .empty() method in jQuery removes all child elements from the selected element, effectively clearing the div.
remove(expr): This is incorrect because there is no jQuery method named remove(expr) for removing child elements.
delete(): This is incorrect as there is no delete() method in jQuery for removing child elements.
None of the above: This is incorrect because .empty() is a valid method for clearing child elements.
Question 6
Problem Statement: "To bind an event handler to the blur event on an element, which jQuery method should you use?"

Options:

.blur()
.blurElement()
.focus()
.blurOn()
Correct Answer: .blur()

Explanation:

.blur(): This jQuery method is used to attach an event handler to the blur event, which occurs when an element loses focus.
.blurElement(): This is incorrect because there is no jQuery method named .blurElement().
.focus(): This is incorrect because .focus() is used to handle the focus event, not blur.
.blurOn(): This is incorrect as .blurOn() is not a valid jQuery method.
Question 7
Problem Statement: "John is trying to animate an element on his webpage but has set its CSS position property to its default value. What will be the outcome of the animation?"

Options:

Animation failed because the CSS position property set to default value
Animation failed because the CSS position property set to Fixed
Run the webpage successfully with animated elements
Animation failed because the CSS position property set to static
Correct Answers:

Animation failed because the CSS position property set to default value
Animation failed because the CSS position property set to static
Explanation:

Animation failed because the CSS position property set to default value: The default position value is static, which does not allow for animations of positional properties.
Animation failed because the CSS position property set to static: This is correct because static positioning does not support animations involving changes to position.
Run the webpage successfully with animated elements: This is incorrect because static positioning prevents animations.
Animation failed because the CSS position property set to Fixed: This is incorrect as fixed positioning does support animations.
Question 8
Problem Statement: "Raju wants to remove an event handler that was previously attached to an element using the on() function. Which jQuery method should he use to achieve this?"

Options:

change()
off()
empty()
delete()
Correct Answer: off()

Explanation:

off(): The .off() method is used to remove event handlers that were attached using the on() function.
change(): This is incorrect because change() is used to handle the change event, not to remove event handlers.
empty(): This is incorrect as .empty() is used to remove child elements, not event handlers.
delete(): This is incorrect because delete() is not a jQuery method for removing event handlers.
