Question 1
Problem Statement: "Select the suitable option for retrieving all the employees who have a manager?"

Options:

select empname, manager_id from employee where manager_id is NULL VALUE;
select empname, manager_id from employee where manager_id NULL;
select empname, manager_id from employee where manager_id is NULL;
select empname, manager_id from employee where manager_id is NOT NULL;
Correct Answer: select empname, manager_id from employee where manager_id is NOT NULL;

Explanation:

select empname, manager_id from employee where manager_id is NOT NULL;: This query correctly retrieves all employees who have a manager by selecting rows where manager_id is not null.
The other options are incorrect due to syntax errors or incorrect logic.
Question 2
Problem Statement: "Select the suitable option for retrieving all the employees whose salary range is between 40000 and 100000?"

Options:

select name,salary from employee where salary>=40000 and salary<=100000;
select name,salary from employee where salary lies between 40000 and 100000;
select name,salary from employee where salary is between 40000 and 100000;
select name,salary from employee where salary between 40000 100000;
select name,salary from employee where salary between 40000 and 100000;
Correct Answers: select name,salary from employee where salary between 40000 and 100000;, select name,salary from employee where salary>=40000 and salary<=100000;

Explanation:

select name,salary from employee where salary>=40000 and salary<=100000;: This option correctly uses the comparison operators to specify the salary range.
select name,salary from employee where salary between 40000 and 100000;: This option correctly uses the BETWEEN operator to specify the salary range.
The other options are either incorrect due to syntax errors or incorrect SQL logic.
Question 3
Problem Statement: "How to retrieve the department_id column without any duplication from the employee relation?"

Options:

select department_id distinct from employee;
select department_id from employee;
select all department_id from employee;
select distinct department_id from employee;
Correct Answer: select distinct department_id from employee;

Explanation:

select distinct department_id from employee;: This option correctly uses the DISTINCT keyword to remove duplicate values from the department_id column.
The other options are incorrect due to syntax errors or do not achieve the goal of removing duplicates.
Question 4
Problem Statement: "Select the suitable option for retrieving all the employees whose last name is 'kumar'?"

Options:

select * from employee where empname like '%kumar%';
select * from employee where empname like 'kumar%';
select * from employee where empname like 'kumar';
select * from employee where empname like '%kumar';
Correct Answer: select * from employee where empname like '%kumar';

Explanation:

select * from employee where empname like '%kumar';: This option correctly retrieves employees whose last name is "kumar" by matching the end of the empname with "kumar".
The other options would either retrieve employees whose names contain "kumar" anywhere or start with "kumar", which does not exactly match the requirement.
Question 5
Problem Statement: "Which statement about SQL is true?"

Options:

The results are sorted by the first column in the SELECT list if the ORDER BY clause is not provided.
You cannot specify a column alias in an ORDER BY clause.
Null values are displayed first in ascending sequences.
Date values are displayed in descending order by default.
You cannot sort query results by a column that is not included in the SELECT list.
Correct Answer: Null values are displayed first in ascending sequences.

Explanation:

Null values are displayed first in ascending sequences: This is true because in SQL, when sorting in ascending order, NULL values are considered the smallest and appear first.
The other statements are false for various reasons:
The results are sorted by the first column in the SELECT list if the ORDER BY clause is not provided: This is false; SQL does not guarantee any order unless ORDER BY is explicitly used.
You cannot specify a column alias in an ORDER BY clause: This is false; you can use a column alias in an ORDER BY clause.
Date values are displayed in descending order by default: This is false; the default is ascending unless specified otherwise.
You cannot sort query results by a column that is not included in the SELECT list: This is false; you can sort by columns not included in the SELECT list.
