Question 1
Problem Statement: "The Numeric datatype in SQL is used to store what kind of numbers?"

Options:

Natural number
Rational number
Whole number
Both whole and natural numbers
Correct Answer: Both whole and natural numbers

Explanation:

Both whole and natural numbers: The Numeric datatype is used to store numbers that can be either natural (positive integers starting from 1) or whole numbers (which include zero). It covers a broad range of numbers, making this the correct answer.
Natural number and Whole number: These options are too restrictive on their own as the Numeric datatype can store more than just these subsets.
Rational number: Although rational numbers can be stored in numeric types, this option does not fully describe the range of numbers the Numeric datatype can store.
Question 2
Problem Statement: "Which of the following is a reference option used when deleting rows from a table in SQL?"

Options:

Cascade
Restrict
Set Null
All the options
Correct Answer: Cascade

Explanation:

Cascade: This option automatically deletes or updates the related rows in child tables when a row in the parent table is deleted or updated. It is the most common method used for referential actions.
Restrict: Prevents the deletion of rows in the parent table if they are referenced by rows in a child table.
Set Null: Sets the foreign key in the child table to NULL if the corresponding row in the parent table is deleted.
All the options: While all options are valid referential actions, the question specifically asks for a reference option for deleting rows, for which Cascade is most commonly used.
Question 3
Problem Statement: "Which of the following are Data Definition Language (DDL) queries?"

Options:

All the options
Delete * from table_name;
Drop table table_name;
Truncate table table_name;
Correct Answers:

Drop table table_name;
Truncate table table_name;
Explanation:

Drop table table_name;: A DDL command used to remove an entire table from the database, including its structure and data.
Truncate table table_name;: A DDL command used to remove all rows from a table without deleting the table itself.
Delete * from table_name;: This is a Data Manipulation Language (DML) command, not DDL, as it only removes rows without altering the structure of the table.
Question 4
Problem Statement: "What is the default format for the Date datatype in SQL?"

Options:

MM-YYYY-DD
DD-MON-YYYY
YYYY-MM-DD
NONE
Correct Answer: YYYY-MM-DD

Explanation:

YYYY-MM-DD: This is the ISO standard date format used by SQL databases by default. It ensures consistency and avoids confusion between different date formats used in different countries.
MM-YYYY-DD and DD-MON-YYYY: These are not standard formats used by SQL databases.
NONE: Incorrect, as SQL databases do have a default date format.
Question 5
Problem Statement: "To remove a relation (table) from an SQL database, which command should be used?"

Options:

Truncate
All the options
Drop
Delete
Correct Answer: Drop

Explanation:

Drop: This command permanently removes a table (or other database object) from the database, along with all of its data and structure.
Truncate: Removes all rows from a table but keeps the structure intact.
Delete: Removes specific rows from a table but does not affect the table's structure.
All the options: This option is incorrect as only the Drop command completely removes the relation (table) from the database.
